# Data Visualization with Matplotlib

## General Properties

`fig, ax = plt.subplots()`: The Figure object is a container that holds everything we see on the page.
The Axes object holds the data. Together they make a canvas where we will make our visualization. If non input given this function creates one plot. 

Input like `plt.subplots(3, 2)` will create three rows of subplots and two columns. (total 6 graphs)
Now axes object is no longer one object but an array of axes objects. To add data, we need to index into this object like `ax[0, 0]`. `sharey`:  All the subplots have the same range of y-axis values. 

`ax.plot(x_data, y_data)`: Adding data to axes object. We can call this method again and again to add more data to the same canvas. `marker`: If data is not continuous and but graph is made of connected lines, we can add markers to each data point. `linestyle`: Changes line style for example dashed line. `color`: Changes color of line and marker.

`ax.set_xlabel("x label")`: Labeling the axises. 

`ax.set_title("Title")`: Adding title to graph. 

`ax.tick_params('x')`: Changing proterties of ticks. We can change tick colors with `colors` parameter.

### Twin axes

Sometimes mesaurements can have different scales and one of them could seem nearly flat. To overcome this issue we can use twinx method. This means that two axes share the same x-axis, but the y-axes are separate.

### Time-series

```
def plot_timeseries(axes, x, y, color, xlabel, ylabel):
  axes.plot(x, y, color=color)
  axes.set_xlabel(xlabel)
  axes.set_ylabel(ylabel, color=color)
  axes.tick_params('y', colors=color)
```

